Thesis: If implemented correctly, e-voting can not only help enable an effective democratic process, but strengthen it. However,
it does have vulnerabilities which could, in theory, completely dismantle the integrity of democracy. Analysis of these vulnerabilities
is necessary for implementing an electronic system that works towards an effective democratic process.

First, democracy is defined as "A system of government in which power is vested in the people, who rule either directly
or through freely elected representatives." Investing power in the people requires the people to trust the voting system and be able to keep
the system accountable. In addition, the voting system must be impervious to outside threats for the purpose of voting integrity.

A democratic e-voting system must take several principles into account in order to be considered effective: 

Trust and transparency - A traditional voting scheme attains transparency due to the average voter having an understanding of how the system
works. Unfortunately, for e-voting, this transparency does not exist - the average voter will probably not understand the full process
of the voting system. The e-voting system must take into account security, encryption, and software that might not be open-source. Because
this software might not be open-source and is most likely too complicated or impossible for the average voter to understand,
e-voting lacks transparency. A simple fix for this is to require all e-voting software to be open-source to maintain accountability. However,
in some governments, the aspect of open-source might never be implemented, so a voting system must take into account, in this situation,
its users trust.

Without transparency, e-voting must excel in the aspect of trust - that is, trust in technology. Because users cannot see the source code in
some situations, measures must be taken so that users are given a sense of assurance that their vote is accounted for and the system is not
tampered with.

Verifiability - a voter-verified audit trail is a central and necessary aspect of e-voting. Once a vote is cast, the voter must be able
to ensure - perhaps through online verifiability - that their vote was received and it is accurate. This maintains accountability and 
trustworthiness of the system and eliminates tampering.

In addition, voting results should be made available to institutions, such as election officials, parties, and independent observers
(such as a news channel). Making the results public, without tying together specific votes to voters, helps maintain verifiability
and trustworthiness.

Reliability and security - In my opinion, the principle of reliability and security is the most important. As mentioned in the thesis,
incorrect security implementation could result in very flawed voting results which ultimately
derail the integrity of democracy, due to a system that is vulnerable to attacks. Without strong encryption, proper security and 
isolation of source-code, an attacker could create an advanced persistent threat which modifies the votes cast or gathers and releases
confidential information. (NOTE - considering the e-voting techniques brought up in class, an attackers attempt to sway a vote might not
be possible, but the release of confidential information is still a security issue to take into account.) 

These threats are especially important to consider given that the nature of voting is political. This seems self-explanatory, but it should
be noted that digital attacks, whether they be DDOS attacks or the hacking of personal accounts and data, are often driven by attackers
with political motives.

In the result of a successful attack, the idea of democracy being "giving power to the people" is completely abused and destroyed as 
an attacker or a group of attackers could modify vote results to their liking.

In closing, David Bismark's presentation on E-Voting Without Fraud seems (to me at least) to address these issues mentioned with e-voting
and provide a consistent, reliable, and secure system through which to vote.

Provide an encrypted voting ballot where the officials being voted for are present in a random order on the ballot. After casting a vote,
the voter removes the portion of the ballot that contains the official's names and shreds it. Their votes are still present on the
right half of the ballot - but a person viewing this portion of the ballot could not determine who the voter voted for as the names of
the officials have been removed. For security, their votes are then scanned using an encrypted bar code - which I'm assuming can keep
track of who the voter actually voted for while maintaining anonymity of the voter. For verifiability, the voter keeps the right portion
of their ballot so they can verify (perhaps online) that their vote was received and is accurate.

With correct implementation of all of these principles - and perhaps the help of some skilled programmers - e-voting can enable and strengthen
the democratic system through the avoidance of fraud, allowing for a trustworthy and accurate voting system that maintains anonymity.
